# Explanation code files

Desarrolle un video tutorial de 7 minutos explicando el funcionamiento del programa `captura.py`, `entrenando.py`, `reconocimiento.py` sobre **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS**.

- Agregado mediante un programa en Python mostrara una imagen en color verde si reconoce a la persona y una imagen de color rojo si no reconoce a la persona.
- La imagen en verde o rojo cambiara si se envía un correo `Gmail` con la palabra `ON` y la palabra `OFF`.

## Project purpose

The purpose of this project is to capture *images/frames* from a video given for example: [smile.mp4](../../../public/assets/smile.mp4). This will take pictures of every frame were it recognizes a human face. This will leave all the `.jpg` images created in the folder [data/rosy](../../../public/data/rosy/) (we use `rosy` as an example but it can be changed).

Once the pictures are captured the next file will be trained with this images recognized and will generate a `.xml` file created in [data/](../../../public/data/) that will be our model that will know the recognition of the face we recorded.

Finally the next file will recognize our model file and will tell if the faces saved in our model are a match or not. This will show a rectangle in the face showing in color green if the face is recognized or red if the face is unkown. The image presented can also change if we send a mail with the word `ON` or `OFF`. The email is hard coded in this code.

**THIS FILES NEED TO BE EXECUTED IN ORDER IF DONE FROM SCRATCH**. The order is the following:

1. [tarea-1/capture.py](./capture.py)

2. [tarea-1/train.py](./train.py)

3. [tarea-1/recognize.py](./recognize.py)

## Capture

This file is the first you need to execute between the three files contained in this folder. This file is an exact copy of [src/foro-2/capture.py](../foro-2/capture.py). You can follow the purpose and explanation in the path.

To execute this file use the following command:

```bash
python capture.py
```

## Train

The purpose of this file is one of the most important because it will take all of the images taken from the previouse file ([tarea-1/capture.py](../tarea-1/capture.py)). Once it gets the files then it will create a `.xml` file with all the training that it made using [OpenCV](https://github.com/opencv/opencv).

To execute this file use the follwing command:

```bash
python train.py
```

## Recognize

This file will recognize if the model generated by the previous file ([tarea-1/train.py](../tarea-1/train.py)) will determine if the face is recognized by the model, if true then it will show it green, if false then it will show it in color red. This will also change the color of the label and rectangle drawn if we send an email with the word `ON` or `OFF`.

To execute this file use the follwoing command:

```bash
python recognize.py
```
