# Explanation code files

Desarrolle un video tutorial de 5 minutos explicando el funcionamiento del programa `captura.py`, `entrenando.py` `reconocimiento.py` sobre **Ubuntu Server 22.04 LST**.

```bash
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```

Utilizar una webcam en el entorno grafico. Suba el código fuente y el video en una carpeta zip o link del video.

## Project purpose

The purpose of this project is to capture *images/frames* from a video given for example: [smile.mp4](../../../public/assets/smile.mp4). This will take pictures of every frame were it recognizes a human face. This will leave all the `.jpg` images created in the folder [data/rosy](../../../public/data/rosy/) (we use `rosy` as an example but it can be changed).

Once the pictures are captured the next file will be trained with this images recognized and will generate a `.xml` file created in [data/](../../../public/data/) that will be our model that will know the recognition of the face we recorded.

Finally the next file will recognize our model file and will tell if the faces saved in our model are a match or not. This will show a rectangle in the face showing in color green if the face is recognized or red if the face is unkown.

**THIS FILES NEED TO BE EXECUTED IN ORDER IF DONE FROM SCRATCH**. The order is the following:

1. [tarea-1/capture.py](./capture.py)

2. [tarea-1/train.py](./train.py)

3. [tarea-1/recognize.py](./recognize.py)

## Capture

This file is the first you need to execute between the three files contained in this folder. This file is an exact copy of [src/foro-2/capture.py](../foro-2/capture.py). You can follow the purpose and explanation in the path.

To execute this file use the following command:

```bash
python capture.py
```

## Train

The purpose of this file is one of the most important because it will take all of the images taken from the previouse file ([tarea-1/capture.py](../tarea-1/capture.py)). Once it gets the files then it will create a `.xml` file with all the training that it made using [OpenCV](https://github.com/opencv/opencv).

To execute this file use the follwing command:

```bash
python train.py
```

## Recognize

This file will recognize if the model generated by the previous file ([tarea-1/train.py](../tarea-1/train.py)) will determine if the face is recognized by the model, if true then it will show it green, if false then it will show it in color red.

To execute this file use the follwoing command:

```bash
python recognize.py
```
